=head1 NAME

Mojolicious::Plugin::RenderFile - "render_file" helper for Mojolicious

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    # Mojolicious
    $self->plugin('RenderFile');

    # Mojolicious::Lite
    plugin 'RenderFile';

    # In controller
    $self->render_file('filepath' => '/tmp/files/file.pdf'); # file name will be "file.pdf"

    # Provide any file name
    $self->render_file('filepath' => '/tmp/files/file.pdf', 'filename' => 'report.pdf');

    # Render data from memory as file
    $self->render_file('data' => 'some data here', 'filename' => 'report.pdf');

    # Open file in browser(do not show save dialog)
    $self->render_file(
        'filepath' => '/tmp/files/file.pdf',
        'format'   => 'pdf',                 # will change Content-Type "application/x-download" to "application/pdf"
        'content_disposition' => 'inline',   # will change Content-Disposition from "attachment" to "inline"
    );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::RenderFile> is a L<Mojolicious> plugin that adds "render_file" helper. It does not read file in memory and just streaming it to a client.

=head1 HELPERS

=head2 C<render_file>

    $self->render_file(filepath => '/tmp/files/file.pdf', 'filename' => 'report.pdf' );

With this helper you can easily provide files for download. By default "Content-Type" header is "application/x-download" and "content_disposition" option value is "attachment".
Therefore, a browser will ask where to save file. You can provide "format" option to change "Content-Type" header.


=head3 Supported Options:

=over

=item C<filepath>

Path on the filesystem to the file. You must always pass "filepath" or "data" option

=item C<data>

Binary content which will be transfered to browser. You must always pass "filepath" or "data" option

=item C<filename> (optional)

Browser will use this name for saving the file

=item C<format> (optional)

The "Content-Type" header is based on the MIME type mapping of the "format" option value.  These mappings can be easily extended or changed with L<Mojolicious/"types">.

By default "Content-Type" header is "application/x-download"

=item C<content_disposition> (optional)

Tells browser how to present the file.

"attachment" (default) - is for dowloading

"inline" - is for showing file inline

=back

This plugin respects HTTP Range headers.

=head1 AUTHOR

Viktor Turskyi <koorchik@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

Nils Diewald (Akron)

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to Github L<https://github.com/koorchik/Mojolicious-Plugin-RenderFile>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mojolicious>, L<Mojolicious::Guides>, L<http://mojolicio.us>.

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2011 Viktor Turskyi

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.

=cut
